well let's recap the latest in the Gaza
War Israeli air strikes have killed at
least
2,670 Palestinians since last Saturday
at least a quarter of them were children
the Israeli military has killed more
Palestinians in 8 days than it did in 51
days of War on Gaza in
2014 the number of Israelis killed in
hamas's military operation stands at
1,400 including 289 soldiers Israel has
ordered 1.1 million Palestinians in
Northern Gaza to move South as the
military prepares for a wide ranging
land Aon sea Invasion meanwhile Iran's
foreign minister has told Al jazer that
his country will not remain an observer
in the ongoing conflict between Israel
and Gaza well Gregory gor is a professor
of international relations at Texas A&M
University he joins us from Blues
Delaware thank you very much for being
on El's era first of all I want to talk
about Anthony blink's uh I guess tour of
the Gulf States before he heads back to
Israel uh he said that he's got three
aims at this point in time to get
humanitarian Aid into Gaza to get uh the
uh captives released by Hamas and to
ensure that this conflict doesn't spread
to other areas hasn't been able to
achieve any of those at this point in
time what do you make of his uh I guess
his efforts his diplomatic efforts over
the last eight
days I think the more important thing
going forward not to say that the fate
of hostages are unimportant or
humanitarian aid but but humanitarian
Aid is not going to be delivered into a
war zone uh I think that the the
question going forward is what happens
the day after the Israeli attack stop uh
and I think that that there's no good
answer to that uh but I assume that
secretary blinkin is speaking to the
gulf leaders about us thoughts about
what happens the day after the other
thing of course that they're speaking
about I'm sure is Iran the gulf
countries have even even Saudi Arabia I
think has better Avenues to speak to the
Iranians now than the United States does
and I think that uh secretary blinkin is
asking them to reaffirm the American
public message to the Iranians not to
escalate the crisis but as you say that
in the last few hours the uh foreign
minister from Iran has said that uh this
his country will not remain an observer
in the ongoing conflict and if the scope
of this conflict widens heavy losses
will be inflicted on the
US I think that this is a time when the
Iranians are enjoying a lot of Big Talk
uh they're attempting to Rally support
for their position and and uh and they
are directly involved in this crisis
already of course given their relations
with Hamas given their relations with
hisb but I wonder if that big talk masks
more cautious
on their part as we can see at least so
far hisbah has been relatively
restrained in its activities on the
Northern Israeli border and I think that
the the Iranians would be courting a
serious escalation with the United
States given the way American sentiments
are moving right now if they were to
take any kind of direct action now we
know Anthony blinkin is heading to uh
Israel tomorrow uh what will has message
be for Netanyahu after visiting all of
these Gulf
States I'm sure that the message that
he's hearing from the Gulf leaders is
that while the Gul leaders understand
that there has to be a response against
Hamas that there's no
justification for uh the the civilian
the the casualties to civilians there's
no justification for the extent of the
retribution from Israel on the civilian
population of Gaza and that will make it
extremely difficult for the gulf
countries many of whom have either
established diplomatic relations with
Israel or in the case of Saudi Arabia
were negotiating on that question to be
able to move forward with relations with
Israel and I'm sure that uh that the
Israelis will uh will want to know from
blinkin what the gulf countries have
said about what happens in that
situation the day after the Israelis
decide to stop this Invasion yeah 2,600
civilians have already Di in Gaza what
kind of pressure can blink put on
Netanyahu to ensure that number doesn't
continue to grow out of
control I think he has to emphasize to
blinkin that that his netanyahu's entire
Regional strategy which was to try to
establish normal relations with as many
Arab states as possible while not
dealing with the fundamental basic issue
of the Palestinians is not tenable in
this situation and that he is going to
have to modulate the Israeli response if
he wants to get back to that strategy of
attempting to increase Israel's contacts
in the Arab world thank you so much uh
we really do appreciate your time that
is Gregory gor professor of
international relations at Texas A&M
University thanks so
much certainly